# Projects from DataCamp

**Project Descriptions (taken from DataCamp):**

* **A New Era of Data Analysis in Baseball** - There's a new era of data analysis in baseball. Using a new technology called Statcast, Major League Baseball is now collecting the precise location and movements of its baseballs and players. In this project, you will use Statcast data to compare the home runs of two of baseball's brightest (and largest) stars, Aaron Judge (6'7") and Giancarlo Stanton (6'6"), both of whom now play for the New York Yankees. The dataset used in this project is from Baseball Savant.

* **Analyze International Debt Statistics** - In this project, you are going to analyze international debt data collected by The World Bank. The dataset contains information about the amount of debt (in USD) owed by developing countries across several categories. You are going to find the answers to questions like what is the total amount of debt that is owed by the countries listed in the dataset? Which country owns the maximum amount of debt and what does that amount look like?

* **Analyze Your Runkeeper Fitness Data** - With the explosion in fitness tracker popularity, runners all of the world are collecting data with gadgets (smartphones, watches, etc.) to keep themselves motivated. exported seven years worth of my training data from Runkeeper. The data is a CSV file where each row is a single training activity. In this project, you'll import, clean, and analyze seven years worth of training data tracked on the Runkeeper app.

* **Analyzing Netflix Data** *  - In this project, you’ll apply the skills you learned in Introduction to Python and Intermediate Python to solve a real-world data science problem. You’ll press “watch next episode” to discover if Netflix’s movies are getting shorter over time, using everything from lists and loops to pandas and matplotlib.

* **Analyzing TV Data** - With Intermediate Python under your belt, you can already analyze and extract meaningful insights from various sources. For this set of projects, you will use a combination of data manipulation and visualization to explore television data.In this project's  variant, you will look at Super Bowl Data, generating insights into game outcomes, viewership, and even halftime shows.

* **Disney Movies and Box Office Success** - Since the 1930s, Walt Disney Studios has released more than 600 films covering a wide range of genres. While some movies are indeed directed towards kids, many are intended for a broad audience. In this project, you will analyze data to see how Disney movies have changed in popularity since its first movie release. You will also perform hypothesis testing to see what aspects of a movie contribute to its success.

* **Dr. Semmelweis and the Discovery of Handwashing** - In 1847, the Hungarian physician Ignaz Semmelweis made a breakthough discovery: he discovers handwashing. Contaminated hands was a major cause of childbed fever and by enforcing handwashing at his hospital he saved hundreds of lives. In this project, you will reanalyze the medical data Semmelweis collected!

* **Exploring the History of Lego** - The Rebrickable database includes data on every LEGO set that has ever been sold; the names of the sets, what bricks they contain, what color the bricks are, etc. It might be small bricks, but this is big data! In this project, you will get to explore the Rebrickable database and answer a series of questions related to the history of Lego!

* **Exploring the Evolution of Linux** - Version control repositories like CVS, Subversion or Git store rich evolution information about a software project. In this project, you'll be challenged to read in, clean up and visualize a real world Git repository dataset of the Linux kernel. With almost 700k commits and thousands of contributors, there are some little data cleaning and wrangling challenges that you'll encounter. But you'll also gain insights about the development activities over the last 13 years.

* **Give Life: Predict Blood Donations** - In this Project, you will work with data collected from the donor database of Blood Transfusion Service Center in Hsin-Chu City in Taiwan. The center passes its blood transfusion service bus to one university in Hsin-Chu City to gather blood donated about every three months. The dataset, obtained from the UCI Machine Learning Repository, consists of a random sample of 748 donors. Your task will be to predict if a blood donor will donate within a given time window. You will look at the full model-building process: from inspecting the dataset to using the tpot library to automate your Machine Learning pipeline.

* **Mobile Games A/B Testing with Cookie Cats** - Cookie Cats is a hugely popular mobile puzzle game developed by Tactile Entertainment. It's a classic "connect three" style puzzle game where the player must connect tiles of the same color in order to clear the board and win the level. As players progress through the game they will encounter gates that force them to wait some time before they can progress or make an in-app purchase. In this project, we will analyze the result of an A/B test where the first gate in Cookie Cats was moved from level 30 to level 40. In particular, we will analyze the impact on player retention.

* **Name Game: Gender Prediction using Sound** - The same name can be spelled out in a many ways (for example, Marc and Mark, or Elizabeth and Elisabeth). Sound can, therefore, be a better way to match names than spelling. In this project, you will use the Python package Fuzzy to find out the genders of authors that have appeared in the New York Times Best Seller list for Children's Picture books.First, using fuzzy (sound) name matching, you will search for author names in a dataset provided by the US Social Security Administration that contains names and genders of all individuals who have applied for Social Security Cards. Next, we'll aggregate the author dataset by including gender. Finally, you will use the new dataset to plot the gender distribution of children's picture books authors over time.

* **Recreating John Snow's Ghost Map** - In 1854, Dr. John Snow used a pre-computer method of spatial analysis by mapping patterns and occurrences of cholera outbreaks in Soho, London. He mapped the deaths in the neighbourhood and determined that a vast majority occurred around one particular water well and that those that died used that well. This is not only one of the earliest uses of data visualization, but by solving this problem, Dr. John Snow also founded spatial analysis and modern epidemiology. In this Python project, you will reanalyze the data and recreate his famous map.

* **Risk and Returns: The Sharpe Ratio** - When you assess whether to invest in an asset, you want to look not only at how much money you could make but also at how much risk you are taking. The Sharpe Ratio, developed by Nobel Prize winner William Sharpe some 50 years ago, does precisely this: it compares the return of an investment to that of an alternative and relates the relative return to the risk of the investment, measured by the standard deviation of returns. In this project, you will apply the Sharpe ratio to real financial data using pandas.

* **Streamlining Employee Data** - In this project, you will import employee and human resources data in CSV, Excel, and JSON format. You will then merge it all into a single DataFrame, before cleaning it and exporting your results into a single CSV file.

* **The Android App Market on Google Play** - In this project, you will do a comprehensive analysis of the Android app market by comparing over ten thousand apps in Google Play across different categories. You'll look for insights in the data to devise strategies to drive growth and retention. The data for this project was scraped from the Google Play website.

* **The GitHub History of the Scala Language** - In this project, you'll be challenged to read in, clean up, and visualize the real-world project repository of Scala that spans data from a version control system (Git) as well as a project hosting site (GitHub). With almost 30,000 commits and a history spanning over ten years, Scala is a mature language. You will find out who has had the most influence on its development and who are the experts.